# Introduction to R Markdown

* R Markdown provides an authoring framework for data science. You can use a single R Markdown file to both

- save and execute code
- generate high quality reports that can be shared with an audience

* R Markdown documents are fully reproducible and support dozens of static and dynamic output formats.
* The key tool for R is knitr, which allows you to create a document that is a mixture of text and some chunks of code. When the document is processed by knitr, chunks of R code will be executed, and graphs or other results inserted.

* This sort of idea has been called “literate programming”.

* knitr allows you to mix basically any sort of text with any sort of code, but we recommend that you use R Markdown, which mixes Markdown with R. Markdown is a light-weight mark-up language for creating web pages.

* Within R Studio, click File → New File → R Markdown. You can stick with the default (HTML output), but give it a title.

* When you run render, R Markdown feeds the .Rmd file to knitr ⧉, which executes all of the code chunks and creates a new markdown (.md) document which includes the code and it’s output.

* The markdown file generated by knitr is then processed by pandoc ⧉ which is responsible for creating the finished format.

* This may sound complicated, but R Markdown makes it extremely simple by encapsulating all of the above processing into a single render function.

## Basic components of R Markdown

* The first chunk is called the header. Here we will later add some instructions. But for now we will give it a simple information.

        ---
        title: "First R markdown document "
        author: "Rani Basna"
        date: "19/11/2019"
        output: html_document
        ---
